**Description**: Various sensors are used by hardware to detect any devices operating outside of the design limits. The threshold limit values are set by hardware fuses or trusted software such as the BIOS. These limits may be related to thermal, power, voltage, current, and frequency. Hardware mechanisms may be used to protect against alteration of the threshold limit values by untrusted software. The limit values are generally programmed in standard units for the type of value being read. However, the hardware-sensor blocks may report the settings in different units depending upon sensor design and operation. The raw sensor output value is converted to the desired units using a scale conversion based on the parametric data programmed into the sensor. The final converted value is then compared with the previously programmed limits. While the limit values are usually protected, the sensor parametric data values may not be. By changing the parametric data, safe operational limits may be bypassed.
**Extended Description**: ::NATURE:ChildOf:CWE ID:862:VIEW ID:1000:ORDINAL:Primary::NATURE:PeerOf:CWE ID:1299:VIEW ID:1194:ORDINAL:Primary::
**Detection Methods**: ::PHASE:Architecture and Design:DESCRIPTION:Access controls for sensor blocks should ensure that only trusted software is allowed to change threshold limits and sensor parametric data.:EFFECTIVENESS:High::
**Potential Mitigations**: ::REFERENCE:CVE-2017-8252:DESCRIPTION:Kernel can inject faults in computations during the execution of TrustZone leading to information disclosure in Snapdragon Auto, Snapdragon Compute, Snapdragon Connectivity, Snapdragon Consumer Electronics Connectivity, Snapdragon Consumer IOT, Snapdragon Industrial IOT, Snapdragon IoT, Snapdragon Mobile, Snapdragon Voice and Music, Snapdragon Wearables, Snapdragon Wired Infrastructure and Networking.:LINK:https://www.cve.org/CVERecord?id=CVE-2017-8252::