**Description**: Electromagnetic fault injection may allow an attacker to locally and dynamically modify the signals (both internal and external) of an integrated circuit. EM-FI attacks consist of producing a local, transient magnetic field near the device, inducing current in the device wires. A typical EMFI setup is made up of a pulse injection circuit that generates a high current transient in an EMI coil, producing an abrupt magnetic pulse which couples to the target producing faults in the device, which can lead to: Bypassing security mechanisms such as secure JTAG or Secure Boot Leaking device information Modifying program flow Perturbing secure hardware modules (e.g. random number generators)
**Extended Description**: ::NATURE:ChildOf:CWE ID:693:VIEW ID:1000:ORDINAL:Primary::
**Detection Methods**: ::PHASE:Architecture and Design Implementation:DESCRIPTION:1. Redundancy - By replicating critical operations and comparing the two outputs can help indicate whether a fault has been injected. 2. Error detection and correction codes - Gay, Mael, et al. proposed a new scheme that not only detects faults injected by a malicious adversary but also automatically corrects single nibble/byte errors introduced by low-multiplicity faults. 3. Fail by default coding - When checking conditions (switch or if) check all possible cases and fail by default because the default case in a switch (or the else part of a cascaded if-else-if construct) is used for dealing with the last possible (and valid) value without checking. This is prone to fault injection because this alternative is easily selected as a result of potential data manipulation [REF-1141]. 4. Random Behavior - adding random delays before critical operations, so that timing is not predictable. 5. Program Flow Integrity Protection - The program flow can be secured by integrating run-time checking aiming at detecting control flow inconsistencies. One such example is tagging the source code to indicate the points not to be bypassed [REF-1147]. 6. Sensors - Usage of sensors can detect variations in voltage and current. 7. Shields - physical barriers to protect the chips from malicious manipulation.::
**Potential Mitigations**: ::REFERENCE:CVE-2020-27211:DESCRIPTION:Chain: microcontroller system-on-chip uses a register value stored in flash to set product protection state on the memory bus and does not contain protection against fault injection (CWE-1319) which leads to an incorrect initialization of the memory bus (CWE-1419) causing the product to be in an unprotected state.:LINK:https://www.cve.org/CVERecord?id=CVE-2020-27211::